When Kylie Jenner was named to Time magazine's 30 Most Influential Teens last year, there was a little bit of backlash, according to the publication, because she was on a list next to the likes of Sasha Obama and Malala Yousafzai. When the magazine put her on the list again this year, it asked what she thought about her critics.

"I think people expect a lot out of [me and my family]. Whether we’re influential for one reason or another, it is what it is. I know how influential I am over my fans and followers. I feel like everything I do, my hair color, my makeup, I always start these huge trends, and I don’t even realize what I’m capable of," she told Time.

Jenner, 18, said she didn't care what people had to say about her last year after being put on the prestigious list.

Read: What It Cost Kylie Jenner to Look Like This
Related: Kris Jenner Got 'Really Upset' When Kylie Got Lip Injections
"People might have been upset because we were next to, like, young girls who started schools and crazy things. But we’re just different people! We’re influential in different ways, and that’s okay," she added.

The daughter of Kris and Caitlyn Jenner said her life has only gotten bigger since last year's honor.

"I’m figuring out exactly what I want to do and becoming the businesswoman that I want to be. My lip kit is launching soon, and I want to have a successful makeup line," she said. "I’m becoming a woman, I have my own house, and I’m really coming into my own now."

The young star did say that social media fame is limited and that "people think they have a perfect idea of who you are from a four-second Snapchat video…and fake blogs, stories, magazine covers. In reality, that’s not the case. Nobody knows who I am except family and my close friends."

Jenner wanted to take a diffrent approach, so she started "IAmMoreThan," an anti-bullying campaign.

"I thought of the idea because, almost my whole life, since I was nine, since I’ve been in the spotlight, that comes with so much bullying and attacking," she said. "I just want to inspire my fans to be whoever they want to be, because that’s what I’ve always done."

As for what Caitlyn and her transition has taught Kylie, she said, "She’s always been a role model my entire life. I have always been so proud of her. Even recently, what I’ve learned the most about her is more personal. Just to be kind to everybody and to—when the spotlight’s on you, when I have as much fame as I do—to not make it about you. Get out there, do something, and help people."

A normal life may be out of the question, but Kylie says it's something "I dream about."

"I never wish to have somebody else’s life—I was meant to have this life for a reason, and I’m going to make the best out of it. But I have normal friends. I sit at my house, and they practically live with me, and I watch them get ready to go to a high school party, hang out with their friends, go to concerts," she said. "I was [recently] sitting at home and my friend said, 'Come to this concert right now! Wait… I forgot you’re famous.'"